**2025 Pilots**

In 2025 the team partnered with two different states to pilot the CBV
tool in both a Medicaid and SNAP context.

# Pilot 1

The Medicaid pilot focused on a quarterly process that checks the entire
beneficiary base against the most recent state quarterly wage data
submitted by employers. Households found to be above the income limits,
are sent a notice requesting income information to stay enrolled in
their benefits. If the beneficiary does not respond with their most
recent income information, their benefits are terminated.

The pilot enhanced the existing process in two ways:

- Enabled an additional income verification method by adding the CBV
  product link to the notice sent to beneficiaries as one of the options
  for providing income information.

- Introduction of text messages notifications. Text messages were sent
  to beneficiaries that had enrolled in text notifications.
  Approximately, 13k text messages were sent as part of the pilot.

## Metrics

### Process and Completion Times

- Median time to complete the process from start to finish: 6.65 minutes

- Average time to complete the process from start to finish: 8.55
  minutes

- 90th percentile time to complete the process from start to finish:
  16.1 minutes

**Additional statistics from start to submission coming in the next
update.**

### Demographic Data and Context

- Since this population is triggered by state quarterly wage data which
  only contains W-2 work, we expected very few people to report gig
  data.

- Texting was a significant outreach vector and lead to so many people
  utilizing smartphones to complete the process.

Device type used to access the site:

- 84% used a smartphone

- 15% used a desktop/laptop computer

- 1% used a tablet

Reports with: (percents don't add up to 100 as someone can connect
multiple types of jobs or income):

- Gig work: 2.8%

- Recent termination: 6.6%

- W-2 work: 97.43%

- Comments contextualizing the income earned: 21%

Age demographic breakdown of users

- Age not set by payroll provider: 27%

- 30-39: 21%

- 19-25: 18%

- 40-49: 15%

- 26-29: 12%

- 55-59: 3%

- 50-54: 2%

- 60-64: 2%

- 65-69: 0.1%

Hours worked per month on average

- 71% of people worked more than 80 hours a month on average

- 29% worked less than 80 hours a month on average

### Completeness of Data

Hours worked:

- W-2 Workers: 87% had hours worked available via their payroll provider

<!-- -->

- Gig Workers: 95% of gig workers had duration of some number of gigs
  present on the account. No gig workers a duration of the gig for ALL
  gigs they had worked. This will require investigation to understand
  how to properly sum up and show git hours worked accurately.

Accounts with:

- Date of Birth: 79%

- Last 4 digits of SSN available: 90%

- Employer address and phone number: 86%

- Employer phone number only: 14%

Viable Reports

After a beneficiary logs into their payroll account or gig platform and
the CBV tool pulls their data, the tool checks to see if we have
received sufficient information for the report to be used by a
caseworker in an eligibility determination. Examples of required missing
data includes fields like Employer Name and Gross Pay.

Of the people who logged into their payroll accounts only 3% didn't have
sufficient information to be used to generate reports. Meaning we
generated valid reports for 97% of people who logged into an account
using CBV.

# Pilot 2

The SNAP pilot intervention focuses on the midpoint check or approval
that happens after 5 months of receiving benefits (for most
beneficiaries). If a household reports there has been a change in
income, the state eligibility and enrollment platform generates an email
with a unique link to CBV inviting the household to report their income
changes using the tool.

This pilot launched so recently that only high-level process metrics
will be shared at this time. Stay tuned next month for an update!

## Metrics

### Process and Completion Times

- Median time to complete the process from start to finish: 5.5 minutes

- Average time to complete the process from start to finish: 7.68
  minutes

- 90th percentile time to complete the process from start to finish:
  17.85 minutes

**Additional statistics from start to submission coming in the next
update.**
