# **July Cumulative Data Update**

PDF Version of Report - [CBV Pilot Data Summary_as of 7.22.2025.pdf](/docs/product-updates/2025-07-22-Data-Summary.pdf)

### **Background and context**

The data summarized in this document reflects the team's current
knowledge. It summarizes the results of 3 completed pilots and early
data from 1 pilot that is still underway.

### Fall 2024 proof-of-concept pilots

Two small scale pilots launched in the Fall of 2024 to assess the
viability of CBV.

- **Pilot A for SNAP**\
  *At renewal, a caseworker cold called eligible clients that needed to
  submit income documentation and offered the option of using CBV. If
  the client agreed, they received the link via email.*

- **Pilot B for SNAP**\
  *At SNAP phone interviews for applications and renewals, a caseworker
  sent eligible clients a link to CBV via email.*

### Spring and summer 2025 pilots

In an effort to rely on less manual work from caseworkers, we worked
with two State agencies to integrate CBV into existing requests for
income verification.

- **Pilot C for Medicaid** (completed, planning a second phase for
  August 2025)\
  *After checking Quarterly Wage Data, clients whose income was flagged
  to be over the eligible income limit were texted a link to CBV and
  sent a paper notice.*

- **Pilot D for SNAP** (currently in-progress, planning a second phase
  for Fall 2025)\
  *At recertification, clients who indicated a change in income were
  sent an email inviting them to CBV. The process was marked as optional
  for clients.*

### Learnings across all pilots
![](/docs/product-updates/images/2025-07-29_Learnings.png)

*What works well*

- Client comments are helpful to both caseworkers and clients.

- Keep client trust and confidence at the center of all future
  iterations.

- Providing low, medium, and high technical integration options to meet
  States where they are.

*Ongoing tweaks and adjustments*

- Introduce CBV when the client's most important step is verifying their
  income. There is too much happening in SNAP interviews to introduce
  another step. The SNAP interview is also too late an intervention as
  many clients have already submitted their income documentation at this
  point.

- Make it easier for clients to identify the platform they need to log
  into.

- Aim for CBV to get as close as possible to one-touch verification.

- Continue to learn what earned income data is available across
  platforms and integrate it into the Income Report for caseworkers.

# **CBV Cross-Pilot Impact Summary**

Coverage

- **On the back end of CBV we use Argyle and Pinwheel to connect
  directly with clients' pay platforms. They claim to cover between 85
  -- 92% of employers and gig platforms.**

  - We are still learning about our precise coverage rates in specific
    geographies and employer sizes. The rate listed above is a national
    coverage rate.

### Timeliness

- **Overall, it takes the median clients 6.5 minutes** **to complete
  CBV. 90% of clients finish the flow in 15 minutes or less**

  - In Pilot C, it took the median client 6.6 minutes to complete CBV.
    90% of clients finish the flow in 15.5 minutes or less.

  - In Pilot D, it took the median client 5.3 minutes to complete CBV.
    90% of clients finish the flow in 12 minutes or less.

- **Clients quickly return CBV when requested at the right point in the
  benefit journey.** *In Pilot D, the median client submitted their CBV
  report back to the state 22 minutes after it was requested from them
  via email. 99% of clients in Pilot D submitted their CBV report back
  to the state within 3 days of the information being requested via
  email. This could not be measured in Pilot C due to the structure of
  the pilot.*

- **CBV's Income Report provides robust, recent income data to
  caseworkers which eases and speeds up the income verification
  process.**\
  *In Pilot C, 139 caseworkers completed a survey after the pilot
  concluded. In that survey, caseworkers said it was:*

  - **Easier to verify income using CBV:** 79% agreed or strongly agreed

  - **Faster to verify income using CBV:** 80% agreed or strongly agreed

  - **More complete information using CBV:** 73% agreed or strongly
    agreed

<!-- -->

- **A majority of CBV Income Reports contain income data from the last
  14 days.**

<!-- -->

- 84% of reports have a payday within the last 14 days

- 7% of reports have a payday between 14 days and 90 days

- 9% of reports don't have a pay day within the last 90 days. This
  confirms that the person has not been paid by that employer in the
  last 90 days which can help a caseworker verify a client's lack of
  income.

- In case reviews the team found that CBV provided proof of termination
  sooner than commercial sources of income data such as Equifax. This
  helped verify recent loss of income.

### Accuracy

*Note: Data shared in this section is based on 22 case reviews that have
been done to-date across pilots. This is done in partnership with
caseworkers to evaluate CBV Income Reports and compare it to Equifax's
The Work Number and/or paystubs submitted.*

- **Case reviews have shown that CBV Income Reports provide the same
  information as Equifax's The Work Number.**

  - 14 cases that submitted CBV Income Reports also contained results in
    TWN.

    - TWN and CBV had the same data: 8 cases

    - CBV had more data than TWN: 2 cases

    - TWN had more data than CBV: 4 cases

- **In some cases, CBV Income Reports provide more information than
  TWN.**\
  *Of the 22 cases reviewed:*

  - 8 cases that submitted CBV Income Reports provided more information
    than TWN. In these 8 cases, TWN did not return results.

### Data Granularity

*Context: CBV works with hundreds of different payroll providers/gig
platforms and thousands of employers. These different platforms have
different levels of data fidelity and return information using different
structures. To account for the varying data fidelity, we lightly
validate and standardize some data elements before generating the income
report.*

- **Data in the accounts CBV connects to is valid for income
  verification 99.5% of the time.** Reasons an account might not meet
  the valid data threshold:

  - Payroll account does not contain the name of the employer making the
    payments

  - No gross income/net income but evidence of hours worked

- **Across CBV Income Reports, hours worked has been available 88% of
  the time for W2 platforms and 98% of the time for gig platforms.**

  - 88% of W2 accounts connected include the hours worked in the pay
    period. For the accounts that don't include hours worked, the team
    could divide the hours worked by the federal minimum wage to create
    an estimate.

  - 98% of gig platform accounts connected include the duration of the
    gigs worked. The only gig platform in our data that does not return
    duration is Grubhub.

- **In cases where W2 employment was recently terminated, a specific
  termination date was included 96% of the time.**

- **Employer phone number was included for 99% of W2 jobs.**

### Adoption

*Note: Data shared in this section is based on sessions not on unique
users or even devices. Our team is working to update our analytics
tracking to better understand if someone drops from the flow and returns
that it is the same person. We will have better tracking capabilities in
the next 6 weeks.*

*Additional context - Pilot C's intervention was sent to a much larger
pool of beneficiaries therefore the overall numbers are heavily skewed
by Pilot C's integration and design.*

![](/docs/product-updates/images/2025-07-29_Adoption_Funnel.png){width="6.5in" height="2.1666666666666665in"}

![](/docs/product-updates/images/2025-07-29_Dropoff_By_Step.png)

- **When clients are able to log into their pay platforms, they are
  likely to submit their Income Report.**

- **Finding Employer, Payroll Provider, or Gig Platform**: Overall 64%
  of sessions who land on the search page find an employer, payroll
  provider, or gig platform and take the next step to open the log in
  modal.

  - In Pilot C, this number is lower at 63%

  - In Pilot D, this number is higher at 77%

- **Login**: Overall, 33% of sessions succeed at logging into their
  account after finding their employer, payroll provider, or gig
  platform account.

  - In Pilot C, this number is lower at 33%

  - In Pilot D, this number is higher at 55%

- **Review payment details**: Overall 94% of sessions viewed their
  payment details after successfully connecting their account. There was
  no discrepancy between the two pilots at this step - both had a 94%
  continuation rate. The team hypothesizes that drop off here indicates
  the real time syncing of income data taking too long and the user
  losing interest and leaving the site.

- **Submit report to agency:** 84% of the sessions that successfully
  logged in and continued on to review the information payment details
  submitted their report to the agency.

  - In Pilot C, this number is lower at 83%

  - In Pilot D, this number is higher at 95%

**Completion Rate**. Once someone finds their employer or payroll
provider, what percentage of people succeed at linking their account and
then go on to submit the income report to the state agency:

- Pilot C -- 26% of sessions who found their pay account submitted an
  income report.

- Pilot D -- 49% of sessions who found their pay account submitted an
  income report.
